Hello guys as I told you in the last lesson now is time to learn how pagination works on the word breastfeed.
Well let's start by looking at the posts we have in the Word Press and mean right now let's head over
to posts and click here.
Now I would just open this page because I want you to see that.
Currently we have 11 posts here.
If you don't have 11 posts in your Wordpress installation just go ahead and create more posts so you
can follow the explanations.
OK well now that you know that.
Let's go over to the front in let's go ahead and visit the blog page and let's see if we have all of
those 11 posts here.
So one two three four.
Ten.
Look how strange.
Only 10 posts are displayed on this page.
If my math is correct one post is missing.
So why is this post.
Let's do another test.
Let's do a fairly generic search.
Let's search for all the posts that contains the letter A.
You agree with me that most if not all posts should contain the letter A.
Right so we should have at least 11 results on the search page.
If you take into account that pages are post-ops within WordPress we can have at you more than 11 results.
Well let's check that out and see how many results we have.
So one two three.
But again we have only 10 posts.
But why.
Well the answer as ever is quite simple.
This balls are actually hitting in order for them to be displayed.
We need to enable pagination both in our indexed page profile for the blog page and other pages that
may use the default template as well as the search that page file for the search results.
Pagination allows us to navigate the other pages that at the moment are hidden.
But first I have to answer a question.
Why do we always have 10 posts on those pages.
So let's go back to the dashboard score settings.
Reading and here is an option that says blog pages show at most issue has the value of 10 so that's
the answer.
Let's change this value to 5 and see what happens.
Relo the search page.
Now we only have five folks shown here
and here and the blog page.
We also have five posts.
If there were pagination as we have 11 posts we should have 3 pages two pages with five posts each and
one last page with only one force right.
OK we can have at least two types of pagination in wordpress.
Again first of all implement pagination with links.
This is the most common type of pagination and we can find it on many websites out there and we also
have a numeric pagination also quite common and quite intuitive.
I'm going to teach you how to create both types of pagination firstly for the blog page.
Are you're going to create a pagination with previews and next links for this.
We're going to open our index file and we have to modify this look here.
As you know the book goes from here from the Y to the end while you're going to recreate the pagination
links soon after the loop is complete.
That is since we have five balls for each page.
Our pagination will only appear after the loop brings this five posts so here after the end while we're
going to close the page we tag open it again.
And here in this space we're going to create the necessary AGM markup for the pagination things.
First we need a bootstrap rule.
And now let's create two effects each that the pages class which are then how post-Iowa pagination later
and bootstrap classes to have position each link.
The first navigation link will be positioned to the left and the second to the right.
So let's use the text left and text right.
Bootstrap classis this column classes will guarantee that both links will have the same size each occupying
half of the screen.
Now in order for the pagination to work let's replace this text we choose WordPress functions first
including the two functions and then I'll explain them to you.
OK you must be thinking that I did something wrong.
How come the link pointing to a new post uses the function called previous post link and the link pointing
to the other post uses.
Next post link.
This should be very wrong but it's not.
It takes a while to get used to the idea.
I know.
In fact all of this will make more sense when you see the result.
So let's save and switch to the front end.
Here on the first page we have the link to the older posts it's being generated to the next post.
Link function that makes sense because the next post on our list are actually the ones with the earliest
publication date.
Following this logic if you go to the last page you see there the oh this post of all and really if
you go back to the dashboard you see that this post here is the oldest one.
Instead the link that points to the newer post uses the previous post link function.
That's because the previous posts are the newest posts.
Did you get it.
Well that's what we have for today.
I hope you like it and that it made sense to you.
I know it's kind of weird at the beginning but when you start creating your own things you understand
the logic and how things works in the next lesson you'll come back and read and implement another type
of pagination for the search page and should then be calling.